We saw how to send a POST request in the last video, we also saw that we do get back a response which has a lot
of data in it and we'll have a look at using this response in this video when we also have a look at
sending a GET request so that we're not only able to store our data on a server but also that we're able
to get it back and use it in our application and for using it, we'll also have a look at how we can extract
data from the response we're getting back.
Well let's start by adjusting our app to actually be able to fetch data and use that,
I'll add new button button primary here where I will say get data,
this should simply trigger this that I fetch the data and I will therefore add a click listener where
I say fetch data, that shall be the method which should get executed,
of course I still need to create this method.
So here is the Get Data button and below this get data button here,
I want to have an unordered list and in this unordered list,
I'll also give it a class of list group,
I want to output some list items with the list item bootstrap class where I basically output my user
data.
Now we can do this with v-for, you learned that and for that, we would need a users array.
So I'll quickly create this new array here, users is an empty array initially and there, I simply want loop
through them
and since I already have user as a name here in my data, I'll use just u here in users, users of course
refers to this array
and then here, I want to output u.username and then separate with dash maybe, u.email.
So that is how I output my user data,
of course we don't see anything here because it is empty
and yeah the fetch data method is not defined yet,
thank you, I will do so in a second, so this is how we output it.
Now I will add the fetch data method and in there, I now want to fetch the data from firebase and then
somehow store it in this array and hopefully the list will then somehow well be updated in
the dom here, in my HTML code.
Let's start step by step and see how we can send a GET request.
We of course we still use this.$http,
now with the get method and in this get method, we pass the same URL as before, I don't need
to pass an extra argument here
but what I do need to do of course is I want to handle my response with the then function here.
Now in this function, I do get my response, I know that
and the cool thing is vue resource now gives us some helper methods on responses.
This response not only has the body and so on, it also has some methods we can use
and one very useful method is the
json method here. Json basically extracts up your response and converts it into a javascript object
which you may use,
this is very handy of course because otherwise we get back a body which is a string, pretty finished,
it can only be a string
and we would have to manually parse this into a script object while the json function does this for
us.
Now this of course means we should now store it, let's store it in a constant, data and have a look at
how this data looks like then,
so if I print data here, let's see if this works the way we want it to work. If I now head over
and I hit get data, oh I somehow get a promise here and not really the extracted data,
why is that?
The reason is response json also gives us back a promise and not the extracted data right away because
it's an asynchronous task, it doesn't have that data right away.
So in order to really access it,
I can't do it like this instead what I should do is not store it in a constant but return response json
and then simply chain another then method here to now use this extracted data in here,
so we may name this data therefore
and now let's log it. Here
data will be extracted because this asynchronous task of extracting it with the json method and getting
the response and everything,
all these things have now been finished
so now we do have access to the data.
So if I now hit get data again,
now we see an object where we actually do have our strange IDs and inside of these IDs, we do have
our user data.
Now that's nice
and actually that's everything I need to be able to loop through it because this is now each a user
and that's exactly what I wanted to print here.
So in order to do so, I now should somehow use my extracted data here and assign it to my users array.
Now the thing we're getting back is no array though,
it's an object where we do have key value pairs right
with these cryptic keys and then the values are our objects or being our objects.
Now we can easily transform this into an array though and there are different ways of doing so,
I will show you one. So my result array shall be an empty array initially let's say,
then I loop through all my keys in data, data
again is an object where the keys are these cryptic strings
and then I can simply say result array push data and then access the key of the current iteration,
so to get the value of that key.
And then here finally, all I need to do is I need to set this.users, so this users array up here equal to result
array,
that's one way, of course there would be other ways but this should work.
And now let's see this in action,
I will reload this, it get data
and you see, it took a couple of milliseconds but then the data was there and vuejs was clever enough
to update the dom because it recognizes that we set a new value to this users and that is a trigger for
vuejs to update the dom.
And therefore this does now work as intended,
I'll just add some line breaks below the button to make it look a bit nicer but now we see, fetching the data
works fine and this is how we can send a get request and also very important, how we can use the data we
get back, extract it with response.json which also returns us a promise and then use this promise
down here
to well use it how we need to use it, to transform the data in the way we need to transform it or whatever
your plan is with the data
you got back.